25 OCTOBER 2017
PASIR GUDANG: Six teenagers in a Proton Wira led police on a 15-minute car chase after the group's underaged and unlicenced 14-year-old driver tried to avoid from being stopped.

The 3.15pm incident yesterday occurred when two policemen from the motorcycle patrol unit approached the car in Jalan Besar, Taman Cendana here.

Police suspected something amiss as the car had dark tinted windows and the car was moving in a suspicious manner.

Seri Alam district police chief Superintendent Jokhiri Abd Aziz said the policemen signalled for the driver to stop the car, but instead he sped off, prompting a chase.

"The car moved for several kilometres when it crashed into two people on a motorcycle. One of them suffered minor injuries.

"Even after that happened, the car driver drove on at high speed. The car only came to a stop when it crashed into a tree at a road divider in Jalan Pekeliling, Tanjung Langsat after police pursued them for about 10km," said Jokhiri.

By that time, the two policemen on motorcycles were joined by other police on mobile patrol vehicles in the hot pursuit.

He said the six teenagers aged 13 to 18 were subsequently detained for investigation.

Urine tests on all six boys turned out negative for any drug use.

"The driver was a 14-year-old and it is believed that he tried to avoid being stopped by police because he had no driving licence.

"All six teenagers were arrested for investigations. Police are also checking if these teenagers were involved in any other unsavoury activities," said Jokhiri.

A video and photos of the six teenagers lying faced-down and side by side on the road as police surrounded them after their car had crashed, was circulated on social media.

A photo of the badly-wrecked Proton Wira was also uploaded on Facebook.

The case is being investigated under Section 186 of the Penal Code for obstructing public servants from carrying out their duties and Section 42(1) of the Road Transport Act 1987 for reckless and dangerous driving.