25 October 2017
KUALA LUMPUR: While Terengganu hope a little fortune will go their way in their final Premier League match on Friday, coach Irfan Bakti has already turned his thoughts to next season.

Having secured a return to the Super League just a year after being relegated, Irfan wants his team to be capable of challenging four-time champions Johor Darul Ta’zim (JDT) in the top flight.

Describing the domination enjoyed by JDT as “ridiculous”, Irfan pledged that Terengganu will be far stronger next season as they embark on adding quality players to their side.

“For me, this season has been tough and for next year we have to prepare really well,” said Irfan yesterday ahead of the match against Perak SEDC in Ipoh.

“We have to move up a level in terms of quality to be able to match the teams in the Super League. For JDT to be winning the league title four years in a row is ridiculous.

“It’s not right to have the same team winning the league, you don’t see that happening with Real Madrid or Manchester United.”

Irfan said he has already decided on the players he wants to retain for next season but will only make an announcement after the season’s final match.

Ahead of their return to the Super League, Irfan would like Terengganu to do so as Premier League champions though the situation is out of their hands.

Terengganu must beat Perak SEDC and hope leaders Kuala Lumpur, who have 47 points like Irfan’s side but a superior goal difference, stumble against Johor Darul Ta’zim II in Pasir Gudang.

“Even though we have secured promotion, we still want the title and we will try our very best,”

"But we also need something to happen in the KL game because they have a better goal difference.

“Although, Perak SEDC have nothing to play for, they will also want to win for pride. I think it will be a good game,” said Irfan as Terengganu bid to become second-tier champions for a third time after 1990 and 1998.

Irfan confirmed that only left-back Adib Aizuddin Latif is out of the trip to Ipoh due to suspension.