25 OCTOBER 2017
NILAI: Ducati rider Jorge Lorenzo wants to forget the bad decision nightmare endured at the Australian Grand Prix last week when he takes to the tarmac at the Malaysian Grand Prix this weekend.

While he admits that he has been going through a tough time throughout the season, the three time former MotoGP world champion said that the decision at the Phillip Island Circuit was not at all expected.

"That race was just really bad. We were not as competitive and finishing 15th is not what I wanted.

"This season has been really tough for me so far.

"Perhaps I need to change my riding style. But the team and me are striving to help each other out and work as best we can together to produce better results.

"Whatever it is, we do have what it takes to achieve good results," he said.

Lorenzo added that the Sepang International Circuit (SIC) is one of his favourite circuits and because of this, he hopes to finish the race strongly.

"It is a modern circuit with a challenging yet well laid out track where I have a lot of fond memories,” said Lorenzo.

Meanwhile, MotoGP championship leader Marc Marquez said he does not want to think too much on being crowned champion at SIC this weekend.

Even though he has good prospects to seal the world title, the Repsol Honda rider only wants to focus on the second last race of the season.

"This is actually the first time that I have the opportunity to wrap up the championship in Malaysia.

"But I do not want to think about it too much, in fact what I want to do is focus completely on the race at hand.

"I have to maintain the same level of focus and consistency for this weekend’s race if I am to finish first,” he said.

The Spanish rider leads the standings with 269 points, 33 points more than his closest challenger, Ducati’s Andrea Dovizioso.

Marquez has thrice been crowned world champion, in 2013, 2014 and last year.

On the challenge he is about to face in Sepang, Marquez admits that the circuit presents perhaps the most challenging race for this year’s calendar.

"Every rider knows just how difficult and challenging Sepang Circuit is.

Add in the uncertain weather factor, it makes competition even tougher.

“Whatever it is, we are getting closer to winning the championship but at the end of the day, we must not get distracted and keep our focus till the very end of the season,” he said.