24 OCTOBER 2017
KUALA LUMPUR: After much speculation in recent weeks, it is now confirmed that Hafizh Syahrin Abdullah will be riding with new team, Petronas Sprinta Racing, next year.

As expected, the new Moto2 team will be a joint effort between Sepang International Circuit (SIC) and Hafizh's long-time sponsor, Petronas.

SIC Racing Team, which currently competes in Moto3 with riders Adam Norrodin and Ayumu Sasaki, will also be renamed as Petronas Sprinta Racing from next year.

Hafizh's current team Petronas Raceline had last week confirmed that the rider will be leaving at the end of the season.

Petronas vice president of marketing Datuk Seri Syed Zainal Abidin Syed Mohamed Tahir said he is hoping for a fruitful partnership with SIC.

"We have a three-year contract (with SIC) which runs until 2020. We are hoping that this partnership will be able to increase our brand reputation," said Syed Zainal, at the team press conference today.

"Hafizh has done well to finish on the podium (twice) so far this season and we are hoping he will be able to maintain his momentum."

SIC chief executive officer Datuk Razlan Razali said Hafizh has been given a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) of finishing in the top five in the overall Moto2 standings next year.

"The main objective (of new team) is to prepare Hafizh to compete in MotoGP in the future," said Razlan.

"If he can achieve that (top five) next year, his chances of competing in MotoGP in 2019 are bright."

No Malaysian has competed in the premier class of the World Championships before.

Hafizh, who has been a full season rider with Raceline in Moto2 since 2014, said he does not feel pressured by the top five target.

"I'd like to thank Raceline for the support they have given me over the years. I just felt that it was time to experience something new and test my abilities," said Hafizh.

"I believe top five is a reasonable target for me based on my performances in the past few seasons.

"It is definitely something I work hard to achieve."

Hafizh, who is currently 11th in the overall Moto2 standings with 86 points, has made it clear he is determined to impress at the Malaysia Motorcycle Grand Prix, which kicks off at Sepang on Friday.