15 october 2017
“Comfort. That’s all you want from your shoes. Am I right?” asks Bryan Chin, his gaze lingering on my light blue denim high cut sneakers. I nod, delighted just how on point he is about my choice of footwear. “Your shoes can say a lot about you,” he adds, before continuing: “Take that guy over there for example, the one with shiny shoes. Normally, if a guy has a dress shoes on during the day, then chances are he’s a working professional. If it shines, you can pretty much deduce that he’s a salesman who’s out to impress his clients. Normal professionals generally don’t shine their shoes.”

Looking sheepish, this sneaker enthusiast confides: “I’m the kind of person who’ll see your shoes first before seeing your face.” It may sound like an odd declaration for anyone to make but for Chin, it makes a lot of sense. He is, after all, the founder and editor of Masses, a sneaker lifestyle portal and magazine, and also of SneakerLAH, an annual sneaker convention that congregates all ‘sneakerheads’ (people who love sneakers and collect them) in one place.

This year, the convention was held at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre over the weekend of Oct 7 and 8. Being the largest gathering since its inception in 2015, there were more than 350 pairs of rare sneakers on display. This attracted many influential collectors and shoppers who bought, sold and traded their kicks with more than 50 sneaker-related vendors.

“It began as just a small event for my client, Hundred% (a sneaker shop located in Lot10, KL). We never expected it to grow so big,” reveals Chin. Last year’s event held in Kenanga Mall, KL attracted more than 22,000 people, an increase of more than 5,000 people from the very first convention held at Lot10. This year, various other activities were also organised for the sneakerhead community such as sneaker customisation services and panel discussions. There was even a mini skate ramp installed.

Sneaker Origins

“Sneakers refer to any shoes that have rubber soles,” enlightens Chin, before adding that over the years, however, many brands have come up with numerous categories for their kicks. Some of these categories go beyond just cataloguing the shoes. They’ve become notable labels, which in turn determine their value and street cred in the sneakerhead community.

Trawling through the annals of history, I learn that the very first pair of sneakers were made and sold in the late 18th century. They were known as plimsolls, a British term for shoes with rubber soles worn by blue-collared workers. Plimsolls were uncomfortable for they were made without a left or right foot, but they were far more affordable compared to dress shoes with solid soles.

It was sometime around 1892 when the US Rubber Company started mass producing more comfortable rubber-soled shoes with canvas tops known as Keds — a major brand still surviving today. It was only in 1917 that these shoes got their nickname ‘sneakers’, a name given by an American advertising agent, Henry Nelson McKinney from N.W. Ayer & Son. His reason? They were so quiet that anyone wearing them could sneak up on you easily.

Through the years, sneakers gained popularity among athletes and their fans. Shoemakers began producing footwear for various sporting events. The first ever pair produced specially for basketball was the Converse All-Stars. It was made by Marquis Converse in 1923 and through the endorsement of Chuck Taylor — an Indiana hoops star — the kicks soon became one of the best-selling basketball shoes of all time.

However, for 31-year-old Chin, although he admits to adoring the classic Chuck Taylors, he happens to think that it was the Nike Air Jordan that was to change the sneaker culture in the 20th century. The footwear was created by sports brand Nike for former basketball superstar, Michael Jordan in the early 80s. “What sneakers have become today is because of the Air Jordan. Without it, a lot of what we see today wouldn’t have happened.”

Sneakers Guru

Some say he’s the expert in all things related to sneakers. Others agree that he’s one lucky guy for getting first dips on the latest editions even before they hit the stores. When I meet Chin, he’s clad in a simple black t-shirt over three-quarter pants, semi-translucent oversized glasses, and a beanie over his shaven head. Oh, and he’s sporting his current favourite pair of black and white chequered Vans slip-ons.

“I don’t believe in buying a pair of sneakers and then keeping it inside the box. You’ve paid so much for such quality kicks, why not let it do what it’s supposed to do: keep your feet protected!” exclaims Chin when I point to his shoes.

This avid collector currently owns about 100 pairs and despite putting them to good use, they’re all neatly kept in individual plastic boxes. “It’s neater this way and keeps the shoes from discolouring by the paper in shoe boxes,” he explains.

Just five years ago, Chin quit his real estate job and made the drastic move to work at a sneakers store in Berjaya Times Square. His family and friends thought he was mad but the switch made sense to him. “It was then that I understood the saying ‘money can’t buy you happiness’,” confides Chin before adding: “I was already spending all my money on sneakers, so why not spend my time among them too.”

During his stint there, he started a personal blog to introduce the new kicks that arrived at the store. When his bosses discovered what he was doing, they were impressed. “They ended up investing in my blog and since then, I’ve expanded Masses to include a magazine as well,” says Chin, chuckling.