22 october 2017
LIKE so many misadventures of mine, my first fishing expedition began with a colossal failure. About eight years ago, I followed my ex-boss on a fishing excursion to one of those pay-per-entry man-made fishing ponds that usually guarantees you a catch.

As we carried rods, buckets and other fishing thingamajigs past the entrance, he assured me that the chances of reeling in fish are significantly higher as the pond is usually well-stocked with fishes.

“A good start for a beginner like you,” he said, swinging his rod over his shoulders while narrowly missing my head.

I learnt how to hook a worm onto the line (without much shuddering or squealing) and fling my line into the pond. But I had no technique, a borrowed rod and ultimately, no catch.

“Next time,” he promised me, “You’ll catch something.”

Next time? Forget it. Time seemed better spent watching the refrigerator defrost.

Fast forward eight years. Older and wiser, I find myself on a road trip to Kuala Rompin with him. For another fishing trip.

“Am I going to be sea-sick?” I ask nervously. “Nooooo! Of COURSE not!” is his blithe answer. I know better now than to believe him and I’m already beginning to regret this little excursion. As I’m beginning to suspect, I’m none the wiser. Just a lot older.

I think back on our conversation two weeks ago and wish I could kick myself for being too gullible.

“Want to go fishing?”

“No.”

“It’s a beautiful boat.”

“No.”

“It’s sailfish season...”

“No.”

“It will be exciting!”

“No.”

“There’s going to be a seafood buffet on board.”

“Wait... what?”

I’m predictable that way. Like wildlife, lure me with food, and I’ll happily amble into a trap. There’s no escaping now and I can’t jump out of a speeding car.

However, a mental picture of the wide expanse of ocean beckoning cheers me up. We’re well on our way to board the Sea Urchin, a luxurious fishing boat to get the ultimate sport fishing experience — chasing after the elusive sailfish, the fastest fish in the ocean.