22 october 2017
You recently played free shows in Latin America and stayed with your fans. How did that change you?

I think my whole perspective for music and making records changed after really getting to know my fans. I understood what they had taken from my music and the importance of making music. During that trip, I reconnected with my guitar and writing songs began to feel natural again. As a person, it made me understand the world slightly better and living with the people allowed me to have an insight to the way they lived. It helped me appreciate life for all that it is.

What did you enjoy most about that experience in South America?

Making the friends that I made, 100 per cent! At the beginning I was living with strangers and now I truly believe they are friends for life.

Your new album is called Something’s Changing. What has been the biggest change in your life since the debut of your first album in 2012?

That’s a really hard question and it feels pretty personal. I don’t want to go into details but life throws everything at you and it sometimes feels like it takes everything too. Music helps me survive and gives me purpose but it doesn’t stop the ups and downs.

Which is your personal favourite track off the album and why?

I love them all in different ways but if I had to pick one that I’m proudest of writing, it would be Moirai. It talks about something I’ve never really touched on before. Moirai is the Greek God in charge of everyone’s fate and I wanted to write a song about the idea that Moirai has let people down because some of the stories I’ve heard tell me that fate can’t decide everything.

You travel quite a fair bit for your shows. What three countries would you like to explore before you turn 30?

Indonesia, Mozambique and Bolivia.

You have your own tea blend “Builder Grey” (one part earl grey and two parts English breakfast). What is the one combination of tea no one should try?

I would imagine lemon and ginger and earl grey would taste pretty terrible.

You also make your own chutneys and jams. Is there a plan to go in the way of Paul Newman’s pasta sauce or Bobbi Brown’s BBQ sauce?

I actually stopped making my chutney’s because it was too heavy to transport and the jars used to smash all the time in the van. It’s really sad because they were delicious.

You married your tour manager William Morris. What’s the most romantic thing you have done for your husband?

Made him a cup of tea.

If you hadn’t entered the music industry, what do you reckon you’d be working as now?

I really don’t know. Maybe I might be working in a pub?

If you could invite anyone famous to dinner, who would you invite and what would you like to find out from them?

Joni Mitchell definitely. And I would want to find out everything!

If you could walk around with a theme song playing in the background, what would yours be?

Haha, maybe I Can’t Make You Love Me by Bonnie Raitt.
